Leading Stocks, Small Caps Slide; 2 Reasons For Investors To Be Cautious Now	 Licensing 
JUAN CARLOS ARANCIBIA
10/02/2018
The stock market weakened Tuesday, but more concerning was the way that many leading stocks gave up last week's gains so swiftly.
The major indexes erased moderate gains in the afternoon, as growth stocks found themselves out of favor.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite fell 0.5%, and an increase in volume Tuesday gave the composite a clear distribution day.
That's now eight Nasdaq declines in higher volume over the past several weeks.
Here's One Reason To Grow CautiousAll of that adds up to a sign that institutional investors are reducing exposure to stocks. That's one reason why small investors should fine-tune their stock picking and watch their holdings carefully.
The S&P 500 was flattish, continuing the task of finding direction. If there was an index with strength it was the Dow Jones industrial average, which rose 0.5% and climbed to a record high.
Intel (INTC) rallied 3.6%. But in the price-weighted Dow industrials, Caterpillar (CAT), 3M (MMM) and Boeing (BA) had larger impact.
Sellers continued to target small caps. The Russell 2000 slid 1%. The widely followed small-cap benchmark has fallen below the 50-day moving average, in contrast with the major indexes. Some of the weakness in small caps lies in regional banks. The SPDR S&P Regional Bank ETF (KRE) is down more than 7% from a Sept. 20 high and touched its lowest level since Feb. 6.
Reason No. 2 For CautionIf small-cap and growth stocks are a concern, leading stocks could be a bigger problem. The IBD 50 fell 1.7%, and a scan through the list revealed sharp drops that snapped price advances.
Trade Desk (TTD) is down 11.6% this week after last week's 6.4% increase to new highs. Edwards Lifesciences (EW) has so far erased more than half of last week's 13.3% rally and most of its fast gains from the Sept. 24 breakout at 156.97. Last week's 7.4% gain in Health Insurance Innovations (HIIQ) is now gone, and then some.
CyberArk Software (CYBR) has eliminated nearly all gains from Thursday's promising gap-up. A 7.5% rally last week in Planet Fitness (PLNT) is now virtually gone, and shares of the gym operator are 4% below the 53.51 proper buy point in a six-week flat base. Both companies are new members of Leaderboard.
Five Below (FIVE) gapped up sharply on earnings Sept. 7. Now, less than half of that gain remains after shares dropped 4%.
Outside the IBD 50, CarGurus (CARG) skidded nearly 6% in triple its usual volume. At one point, the midcap growth stock fell as much as 7% below a 53.41 buy point.
The IBD 50 is down more than 2% for the week, after rising 3.2% last week. True, quite a few leaders are holding up just fine. But with many others stumbling, investors have a second reason to exercise some caution.
The major indexes so far don't show the fatigue in the leaders. But there are signs of softening. Since early September, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq have been in mild uptrends. For about a week now, the two indexes have had a habit of making downward reversals or of closing near session lows. That can be read as a negative, but the daily price ranges have been pretty small to draw conclusions.
Breadth was weak Tuesday, with decliners outnumbering advancers by 2-to-1 on the Nasdaq and by 8-to-5 on the NYSE. This appears to be a longer-term problem: The Nasdaq's advance-decline line is showing slack since early September.
Mining stocks led Tuesday's market. Gold prices rose on worries over Italy. Reports said a legislator for the coalition League Party said most of the country's economic problems would be fixed if Italy had its own currency. The remarks reignited fears of a clash with the European Union.
Wall Street sought havens in consumer staples, utilities, telecoms and bonds. The Dow utilities climbed 1.3%. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note eased four basis points to 3.05%.
Earnings season is approaching, and that figures to cause some movement in the stock market in the coming weeks. Estimates for third-quarter S&P 500 firms point to a solid 19.3% increase in earnings per share, according to FactSet. From the start of Q3, analysts have cut aggregate EPS estimates by 1.1%, which is well below the five-year average (3.2%) and 10-year average (4.8%), FactSet notes.
However, the percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance is 76%, which is above the five-year average of 71%. Of 98 companies that have issued EPS guidance for Q3, 74 have given negative guidance and 24 positive, the firm said in a report Friday.
